{\rtf1\ansi\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0 Consolas;}}\deff0{\colortbl;\red168\green102\blue13;\red85\green136\blue23;\red132\green70\blue49;\red34\green57\blue168;\red39\green47\blue194;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red163\green50\blue67;\red81\green43\blue30;\red254\green220\blue86;\red14\green124\blue107;}{\*\pgdsctbl{\pgdsc0{\cbpat7}\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}{\cf2 #!/bin/bash\par
}\par
{\cf2 # This UNIX shell script makes graphical Vim use one instance where possible.\par
}{\cf2 # Save this script as ~/bin/gvim, make sure it's executable and you're off!\par
}\par
{\cf2 # Configuration variables.\par
}{\cf1 GVIM}{\cf4\b =}/usr/local/bin/gvim\par
{\cf1 WMCTRL}{\cf4\b =}/usr/bin/wmctrl {\cf2 # <- try `sudo apt-get install wmctrl'\par
}{\cf1 DEBUG}{\cf4\b =}no {\cf2 # yes or no\par
}\par
{\cf2 # Look for command-line arguments that aren't filenames and\par
}{\cf2 # if one is found then fall back to Vim's regular behavior.\par
}{\cf4\b for} ARG {\cf4\b in} {\cf1 "$@"}{\cf4\b ;} {\cf4\b do}\par
  {\cf4\b if} {\cf4\b echo} {\cf1 "$ARG"} {\cf4\b |} {\cf4\b grep} {\cf4\b -q} {\cf1 '^note:'}{\cf4\b ;} {\cf4\b then}\par
    {\cf2 # Don't consider "note:..." as non-file argument (this is a\par
}    {\cf2 # hack to make my note taking plug-in work with this script).\par
}    {\cf4\b continue}\par
  {\cf4\b elif} {\cf4\b [} {\cf4\b !} {\cf4\b -f} {\cf1 "$ARG"} {\cf4\b ]}{\cf4\b ;} {\cf4\b then}\par
    {\cf2 # Replace the wrapper with Vim itself.\par
}    {\cf4\b [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf4\b =} yes {\cf4\b ]} {\cf4\b &}{\cf4\b &} {\cf4\b echo} {\cf1 "Process $$: Executing $GVIM $@"} {\cf4\b >}{\cf4\b &}{\cf1 2}\par
    {\cf4\b exec} {\cf1 $GVIM} {\cf1 "$@"}\par
    {\cf4\b exit} {\cf2 # <- shouldn't be reached!\par
}  {\cf4\b fi}\par
{\cf4\b done}\par
\par
{\cf2 # Check if Vim is already running.\par
}{\cf4\b if} {\cf4\b !} pidof {\cf1 $GVIM} {\cf4\b >} /dev/null{\cf4\b ;} {\cf4\b then}\par
  {\cf2 # It's not: Open file(s) in new instance.\par
}  {\cf4\b [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf4\b =} yes {\cf4\b ]} {\cf4\b &}{\cf4\b &} {\cf1 "Process $$: Executing $GVIM -p $@"} {\cf4\b >}{\cf4\b &}{\cf1 2}\par
  {\cf4\b exec} {\cf1 "$GVIM"} {\cf4\b -p} {\cf1 "$@"}\par
{\cf4\b else}\par
  {\cf4\b [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf4\b =} yes {\cf4\b ]} {\cf4\b &}{\cf4\b &} {\cf4\b echo} {\cf1 "Process $$: Requesting server list"} {\cf4\b >}{\cf4\b &}{\cf1 2}\par
  {\cf1 $GVIM} --serverlist {\cf4\b |} {\cf4\b grep} {\cf1 '^GVIM[0-9]*$'} {\cf4\b |} {\cf4\b while} {\cf4\b read} VIM_SERVER_NAME{\cf4\b ;} {\cf4\b do}\par
    {\cf4\b [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf4\b =} yes {\cf4\b ]} {\cf4\b &}{\cf4\b &} {\cf4\b echo} {\cf1 "Process $$: Raising selected Vim server"} {\cf4\b >}{\cf4\b &}{\cf1 2}\par
    {\cf1 $WMCTRL} {\cf4\b -xa} {\cf1 $VIM_SERVER_NAME}\par
    {\cf2 # Pass any pathname arguments on to Vim?\par
}    {\cf4\b if} {\cf4\b [} ${\cf2 # -ge 1 ]; then\par
}      {\cf2 # Open files on command-line in existing Vim window.\par
}      {\cf4\b [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf4\b =} yes {\cf4\b ]} {\cf4\b &}{\cf4\b &} {\cf4\b echo} {\cf1 "Process $$: Executing $GVIM --servername '$VIM_SERVER_NAME' --remote-tab-silent $@"} {\cf4\b >}{\cf4\b &}{\cf1 2}\par
      {\cf4\b exec} {\cf1 $GVIM} --servername {\cf1 "$VIM_SERVER_NAME"} --remote-tab-silent {\cf1 "$@"}\par
    {\cf4\b fi}\par
  {\cf4\b done}\par
{\cf4\b fi}\par
}