{\rtf1\ansi\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0 Consolas;}}\deff0{\colortbl;\red255\green160\blue160;\red135\green206\blue235;\red102\green102\blue102;\red189\green183\blue107;\red255\green255\blue96;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green160\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue0;\red250\green128\blue114;}{\*\pgdsctbl{\pgdsc0{\cbpat9}\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}{\cf3 #!/bin/bash\par
}\par
{\cf3 # This UNIX shell script makes graphical Vim use one instance where possible.\par
}{\cf3 # Save this script as ~/bin/gvim, make sure it's executable and you're off!\par
}\par
{\cf3 # Configuration variables.\par
}{\cf1 GVIM}{\cf6 =}/usr/local/bin/gvim\par
{\cf1 WMCTRL}{\cf6 =}/usr/bin/wmctrl {\cf3 # <- try `sudo apt-get install wmctrl'\par
}{\cf1 DEBUG}{\cf6 =}no {\cf3 # yes or no\par
}\par
{\cf3 # Look for command-line arguments that aren't filenames and\par
}{\cf3 # if one is found then fall back to Vim's regular behavior.\par
}{\cf5\b for} ARG {\cf5\b in} {\cf2 "$@"}{\cf6 ;} {\cf5\b do}\par
  {\cf5\b if} {\cf5\b echo} {\cf2 "$ARG"} {\cf6 |} {\cf5\b grep} {\cf6 -q} {\cf2 '^note:'}{\cf6 ;} {\cf5\b then}\par
    {\cf3 # Don't consider "note:..." as non-file argument (this is a\par
}    {\cf3 # hack to make my note taking plug-in work with this script).\par
}    {\cf5\b continue}\par
  {\cf5\b elif} {\cf6 [} {\cf6 !} {\cf6 -f} {\cf2 "$ARG"} {\cf6 ]}{\cf6 ;} {\cf5\b then}\par
    {\cf3 # Replace the wrapper with Vim itself.\par
}    {\cf6 [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf6 =} yes {\cf6 ]} {\cf6 &}{\cf6 &} {\cf5\b echo} {\cf2 "Process $$: Executing $GVIM $@"} {\cf6 >}{\cf6 &}{\cf1 2}\par
    {\cf5\b exec} {\cf1 $GVIM} {\cf2 "$@"}\par
    {\cf5\b exit} {\cf3 # <- shouldn't be reached!\par
}  {\cf5\b fi}\par
{\cf5\b done}\par
\par
{\cf3 # Check if Vim is already running.\par
}{\cf5\b if} {\cf6 !} pidof {\cf1 $GVIM} {\cf6 >} /dev/null{\cf6 ;} {\cf5\b then}\par
  {\cf3 # It's not: Open file(s) in new instance.\par
}  {\cf6 [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf6 =} yes {\cf6 ]} {\cf6 &}{\cf6 &} {\cf2 "Process $$: Executing $GVIM -p $@"} {\cf6 >}{\cf6 &}{\cf1 2}\par
  {\cf5\b exec} {\cf2 "$GVIM"} {\cf6 -p} {\cf2 "$@"}\par
{\cf5\b else}\par
  {\cf6 [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf6 =} yes {\cf6 ]} {\cf6 &}{\cf6 &} {\cf5\b echo} {\cf2 "Process $$: Requesting server list"} {\cf6 >}{\cf6 &}{\cf1 2}\par
  {\cf1 $GVIM} --serverlist {\cf6 |} {\cf5\b grep} {\cf2 '^GVIM[0-9]*$'} {\cf6 |} {\cf5\b while} {\cf5\b read} VIM_SERVER_NAME{\cf6 ;} {\cf5\b do}\par
    {\cf6 [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf6 =} yes {\cf6 ]} {\cf6 &}{\cf6 &} {\cf5\b echo} {\cf2 "Process $$: Raising selected Vim server"} {\cf6 >}{\cf6 &}{\cf1 2}\par
    {\cf1 $WMCTRL} {\cf6 -xa} {\cf1 $VIM_SERVER_NAME}\par
    {\cf3 # Pass any pathname arguments on to Vim?\par
}    {\cf5\b if} {\cf6 [} ${\cf3 # -ge 1 ]; then\par
}      {\cf3 # Open files on command-line in existing Vim window.\par
}      {\cf6 [} {\cf1 $DEBUG} {\cf6 =} yes {\cf6 ]} {\cf6 &}{\cf6 &} {\cf5\b echo} {\cf2 "Process $$: Executing $GVIM --servername '$VIM_SERVER_NAME' --remote-tab-silent $@"} {\cf6 >}{\cf6 &}{\cf1 2}\par
      {\cf5\b exec} {\cf1 $GVIM} --servername {\cf2 "$VIM_SERVER_NAME"} --remote-tab-silent {\cf2 "$@"}\par
    {\cf5\b fi}\par
  {\cf5\b done}\par
{\cf5\b fi}\par
}